<!-- Summer 1981 -->

It was a nice day.

His younger walking brothers were out of the house, his older working brothers
were at school, his tiny sleeping brother was in a crib, and his unborn kicking
sister was in his mother's belly.

<!-- C: 9, W: 10 (at wizard primary), F&G: 3 (on excursion with dad), R: 1 -->

Hence: it was a nice day.

He reflected[^1] that it may very well be one of the last nice days he would
ever experience. He was four and some halves, a sister (“there hasn't been a
girl Weasley in centuries!” he'd heard Auntie Muriel exclaim in that shrill
voice he already knew meant unpleasantness) on the way, brothers that were
starting to talk, and more alarmingly, school would start when he turned five,
which had to be soon, now, surely.

It was therefore to be that Percy Weasley would get out of the house and take
advantage of this nice day to disappear into the tall grass, delighting in how
the stalks and flowers brushed his cheeks, and run around, his arms extended,
yelling nonsense at the top of his voice, falling happily backwards, getting
back up immediately, chasing after butterflies, crouching down to look at bugs.

From the kitchen window, longingly looking at the gleeming pots and pans
(Arthur, in a rare display of decisiveness, had put his foot down and advised
her not to do any cooking for the last month before she was due. He was right,
she really oughtn't, but the steel and spices called), Molly smiled and readied
her wand, for her third boy would surely track in much mud whenever he had
exhausted himself.

On his way back into the house, Percy tripped on a lace which had mysteriously
become undone and wedged itself between his left shoe and the cobblestone, the
silly goose. It would be a terrible nice day if he were to fall on his face,
and yet that's exactly what was going to happen, given his hands would just not
get out of his pockets fast enough.

_Oh no,_ he thought, when he reached horizontality, centimetres before his nose
would reach the ground. And then: _uh,_ when the path was soft like his pillow,
and _uhhh,_ when he was bouncing back up, and finally _what._ when he was stood
there, intact, as if nothing had happened.

He blinked, carefully reached a foot foreward and poked the ground. No, that
was firm. He stepped forward, putting his whole weight[^2] on the stones, then
lifting one leg and standing on tiptoes. Still unmoving. Were he not tired from
the running around of earlier, he would have stomped and jumped. Percy instead
stepped carefully back, and stared.

This is how Molly found him, having noticed the lack of joyful cries and
expecting… well, not expecting a stock still child. "What's happened, dear?"
she enquired from the top step. Her boy looked up, blinking, opened his mouth,
pointed weakly to the ground, then faltered, and finally weakly declared that
he thought he was tired.

“Well come along, then, and wait a little— there, _Scourgify_, get in now dear,
you can have a nap before Papa comes back with your brothers, how's that.”

With one last glance at the cobble, still as solid-looking as it ever was, he
stumbled into the Burrow and under the safety of his duvet.

[^1]: A word he had learned not a few hours earlier, reading through what was
  certainly not a beginners' book with large type and pictures, but one he had
  found in the library, with thin lines in pretty patterns and letters that
  didn't _quite_ look the same as he'd been taught.

[^2]: All twenty-one kilos of it, a very reasonable figure that Arthur could
  not help but fret about. The Ministry, in a push for normalcy even in the
  middle of a war, was about to release the new Report on the Health of Young
  Wizards and Witches, 1971–1981 edition, an early copy of which had made its
  way in his desk (and he would have to get Charla a bouquet of Bluebells and
  Baccaras… or perhaps a Mata-Hari), and he Just Knew that Molly would inhale
  its contents before the news owl had flapped away. Twenty-one and one eigth
  kilos was the average at age five, and he foresaw many enormous lunches in
  their immediate future.
