Current theories on the correlation between Weasley hair intensity and speed to
pick up reading in Young Witch class lacked historical evidence, but there
definitely seemed to be a link in this particular one. The only boys to read
better were Damien and Andrea, both Weasley cousins of some relation he had
already forgotten despite introductions only a short while ago, and they were
both older and more flamboyant than he. Three girls and one other also read
better, but they obviously weren't Weasleys so Percy didn't count them in his
theories.

Another conjecture the boy was half-dreaming about involved the relationship
between the pitch of the lecture's droning and the time left before they could
all step out into the sun for a half hour. It was therefore deeply unfortunate
that these thoughts had brought him far, far away from class and Ms Leslie's
introductory course in verbal[^1] arithmetic, and—

“Master Weasley,” a voice sounded just outside his ear. “Perhaps you may be
able to enlighten the class?”

Percy thought that jumping half a foot in the air from a sitting position ought
to garner some kind of special recognition, but had learned over the past few
weeks, if not to stay awake in the here and now, then to avoid making the
situation worse by saying whatever passed through his head at the time. The one
time it hadn't was when he'd reflected that Ms Leslie was ‘almost as scary as
Auntie Muriel’, but he still didn't know whether that was a good thing or not.

In any case, no matter how much he'd pleaded, he'd had to remain behind in
class and had the option to either stare at a wall, or watch longingly as his
classmates played in the sun. Which is how he met Stanley.

At first, Percy had thought he was alone in being kept back, and that seemed
fair, in a terribly unfair way. He had, after all, fallen a-dream in the middle
of class, and that broke a rule. And as children ran out he'd not paid
attention to his surroundings. Until, turning away from the window, forlorn,
the corner of his eye caught another.

At the very back of the room sat a red-haired child, head lounging sideways on
their crossed arms, staring unmoving at the scene in the small yard. Percy
tried to remember a name, and realised he couldn't recall ever playing with or
seeing them outside. The inside of the classroom was not often an opportunity
for social time. He got up, winced as his stool scraped loudly in the quiet,
and walked over to introduce himself.

"Hi," he said brightly, then checked himself and looked around for the teacher,
before continuing in a much softer voice. “I'm Percy. Uh, Percival. From up in
the Burrow.”

"You can talk normally, she's never around at break," the child replied by way
of greeting. They had not even moved, face still buried in elbows and coloured
curls, and yet their voice was clear and well heard! Percy _had_ to learn this.

"Oh, okay." Hmm. "How do you know? Um. I haven't seen you... you're new?"

He didn't think so, there would have been an introduction in the morning, like
for Tanya, and for Arun the week before. And yet... he couldn't have missed
them completely, surely?

“Oh no,” they reassured. “I've just been here for all breaks. I can't go
outside, see?”

Percy didn't.

"Ah, I'm Stanley," and the child raised their head and sat back. They had
freckles and hazel eyes, a round nose and a small smile. "Weasley, too."

And Percy could see it, now. You couldn't assume with just the hair, as mama
said, and as the Prewetts and Rowans and Galbraiths illustrated, and of course
he hadn't known if Stanley was boy or girl or something else, that could have
thrown it out, too.[^2] Speaking of.

"Are you a boy or..." he trailed off, ears already reddening.

"I think so. I can't change it, anyway." Stanley replied, cocking his head slightly.

What.

"I don't have magic?" Stanley tried again.

"Oh." Ohhhhh. That explained... less than it created questions, actually. But
there were more important things: "Alright. So why can't you go outside?"

“Because of axe, axi—” the boy grimaced. “— kid magic. Like when you kicked the
Quaffling yesterday and it went too far and it hit Joshua? And it bounced off?
Won't bounce off me.”

Percy was horrified.

Not being able to go outside? That was already dreadful. Not being able to ever
play or have a friend because a classmate might accidentally injure you?
Unnacceptable.

Forgotten was the fair unfairness of not being able to go outside this one day.
Now Percy vowed to himself[^3] to bring some of this much more important
unfairness to bear. While he had no desire to forgo sun nor fresh air, he could
make sure to spend some time with his cousin and new friend Stanley. Starting
now.

“That sucks.” He dug down into his bag, pulling out a well-worn pouch. “Want to
play gobstones?”


<!-- stanley weasley, a squib. in class because he's being hidden from the war. he stays inside because, apart from the whole hiding thing, with no magic of his own, accidental magic from the other children could be dangerous. percy finds this unfair, really unfair, spends the break with him, and resolves to spend more time with his new friend. unfortunately, stanley isn't there the next day, nor any other day after that. -->


[^1]: While the large words had been explained, Percy also wondered who
  _verbal_ was, and why they were learning about their way of counting rather
  than anyone else's.

[^2]: Even discounting the whole Metamorphmagus thing (which wasn't a family
  trait, thank Merlin, the universe might have deconstructed out of fear),
  magical children were known to Change. Was Ginevra the first born-girl
  Weasley in centuries? Doubtful, yet it was already being claimed that she had
  ended the curse, while she hadn't even _breathed air_ for the first time.
  Perhaps Seers had been consulted, or perhaps, just perhaps, the whole curse
  business was a load of tosh. Curses are bad for you: generally one would put
  more effort into breaking it rather than submitting to its ends and
  gossipping over it for decades.

[^3]: While being very careful not to call his magic as he did so. No one would
  want to end up like Pinocchio of the stories (the French and Italian tales
  were a lot less popular than Beedle's in Britain, yet no less important for
  young witches to hear, Molly always said), and their many misadventures
  Vowing things with magic they didn't actually mean to have enforced upon
  themself. Percy made sure to phrase his informal vow correctly, though, just
  in case. One could never be too careful with Soul Magic, even in childhood.
