The library missed having visitors, and had pushed just a hint at the young
boy’s curiosity to make him step in. It had been fairly disused already, but it
was home to various eccentric books, scrolls, volumes, and loose-leaf
collections that explained anything from the perfect dimensions of the dinner
second dessert spoon (which Percy figured had been invented entirely for the
purposes of the essay, even after his mum had confirmed that yes, it was a
thing, “although I doubt even the Blacks have any, these days.”), to an odd
little fist-sized volume that was bound shut with magitape — easy to seal, easy
to break, hard to tamper with, a sure mark that whatever in there was useful
but not to be used unless one knew what it was — and proclaimed, from what he
could read between the thick lines of tape, to contain “the most powerful ward
that can be deployed in no time at all.”

In usual times, all Weasleys came and went around this library occasionally, to
look for something or just wander around. His dad would take up visiting
cousins and leave them to have a gander, and he would bring whichever one of
his sons he had hanging on at the time. Percy thought younger-him liked the
trips; Arthur knew better, but what four year old enjoyed being taken away from
the sun and grass to hang out with boring adults in a library?

Cousins didn't visit anymore, though. No one of the family did, and those not
of the family wouldn't have been able to find the way in the first place. The
library had gotten quite lonely, and when a lonely young witch had come close
enough in search of _something, anything_ to do, well. The library had
provided.

There was a drab come upon the world, Percy had heard someone say at the dinner
table. Cousins didn't visit, but many strange adults did; it wasn't for fun or
food, though, even if they all liked his mum's cooking (who didn't?), and they
talked low inside wards. There was a war out there, he knew, and Stanley had
gone because of it. He missed him, strangely, though he had only really known
him for an hour. With him had left a friend: more, it was the first loss Percy
had felt.

In that library, in a corner near a window (and perhaps a seat could be
glimpsed under the mess) sat a haphazard pile of much of everything, that
looked as if a storm had gone through a room and deposited its quarry here, of
all places, in one abandoned corner of an odd library[^1]. There were scarves among
quills, flagons thankfully stoppered among yellowing postcards, chess pieces
among books with gleaming, even glittering, covers. It was one of these that
took to Percy's eye.

It had been read, but not many times. The spine was still stiff, and it smelled
new. It sported colourful pronouncements that danced happily at being looked at
again, like “best-seller in the Muggle world!” and “includes author's
all-original ward and rune schemes!” and wasn't that odd? Muggles had no use
for wards, or couldn't use them, or couldn't make them, Percy wasn't too sure
what the lesson had been. But they certainly wouldn't be interested in wards
and runes, so how was this book popular in their world? That deserved further
attention, he decided, so he pulled the book out for closer observation.

Gideon Prewett, read the first page, in messy calligraphy with a very informal
flourish on the closing ligature. "They could be honorary Weasleys, those two,"
he had heard his dad say. Percy liked Gideon, as well as Fabian, and wondered
at how his mum always seemed to be able to know which was which (usually to
scold them after a particularly disastrous bit of fun). The twins were going to
be named after them, but they had put their foot down: "legacy is a tough
burden, Molly; as we all well know. Plus they're old-fashioned names now,
wouldn't want to give them Old People names before they're even born!" Percy
thought there was more to the conversation: it always seemed so, with adults,
but the gist (“core, heart, nucleus, kernel, core, or crux; essence, substance,
quintessence, or significance,” he chanted under his breath, recalling for no
particular reason[^2] an entry in a thesaurus[^3] [^4]) was clear enough, for
once.

So a book that belonged to them would have to be alright. He kept reading:

- A Journey in a World not quite like Ours,
- To go There and come Back Again,
- The Adventures of an Unlikely Traveler, Bilbo Baggins,
- The Hobbit.
- by J. R. R. Tolkien, ward of his House.

That was, he thought, quite wordy for a title.[^5] Certainly wordier than many books in
this library, or any other library in the house[^6] [^7], although he had one book on
his night-stand[^8] about a certain Alexander, which came close. He could
even understand all these words!

A House Ward writing a book, that was odd indeed. Not being a House Ward, that
was quite common, no, but being only a House Ward and no other titles, that was
very odd. Most of the books Percy had were either written by Heir This or Lady
That, by Professor Whichever and Potion Master Whomst, by Sir Proper Name or
The Indigo Mistress of That House There. But no-one who Wrote Books For Young
Witches was just a House Ward. Just for that, Percy was intrigued. In
conjuntion with his original interest, that was enough to gain a place on his
to-read list. He carried the book to a growing pile nearer the exit, then
resumed his search in the disaster of mess.

Much later, hearing the meal call, he looked, quite satisfied, at his to-read
tower of books: it was almost as tall as he was! That would give him enough to
read for quite a while, without having to make more fetching and searching
trips. He dithered, pondering how best to carry his carefully-selected treasure
of words down to his room. His mum's calling was getting insistent, though.
Decisions decisions... oh, perhaps Dad would be at dinner and willing to help!

With the book problem (hopefully) sorted, he flew — not literally, toy brooms
were not allowed inside the house — down stairs and banisters (only where he
knew he wouldn't be seen, by people nor portraits) and slid into his seat just
as his mother set the last dish on the table.

"Put your serviette on, Percival." she instructed without missing a beat.

"Yes mum." he said as he dutifully did so. (One full name was okay. If the
middle name came out, well, _that_ was when things were about to become loud.)

"Fred, don't stick your tongue out at your brother," Molly warned without
turning.

Fred looked spooked and forgot to pretend to be George, as the twins had taken
to do recently. Percy smirked: he had no more idea than Fred did about how
their mum did that, but more experience to not be surprised anymore.

--- TK check Fabian and Gideon status re above

It was much later in the week that Percy rediscovered the book by Tolkien House
Ward J. R. R., whatever those initials could be. He'd have to ask an adult
about the Tolkien name: not one he'd heard while eavesdropping[^9] and not one
mentioned in lessons at school or otherwise.

The book looked enticing though. It looked like it took Percy seriously, and
not like a child. Percy acknowledged he was, but if being babied by grown-ups
was exasperating, being babied by books was just exhausting. He had a
"discarded" pile next to his "read" and "to-read" piles[^10] where all such
offensively babyish books now resided, as well as boring treaties (cauldron
thickness wasn't all that interesting) and books with too many words that the
dictionary didn't have an entry for.

> In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit. Not a nasty, dirty, wet hole,
> filled with the ends of worms and an oozy smell, nor yet a dry, bare, sandy
> hole with nothing in it to sit down on or to eat: it was a hobbit-hole, and
> that means comfort.

"Hobbit" was not in the dictionary, but Percy figured it would be explained
further along, given it was in the title. He had skipped everything that even
looked like a preface: he could always come back, he thought, once he
determined that the book was worth being read. And with that thought, he kept
going.

> No going upstairs for the hobbit: bedrooms, bathrooms, cellars, pantries
> (lots of these), wardrobes (he had whole rooms devoted to clothes), kitchens,
> dining-rooms, all were on the same floor, and indeed on the same passage.

Percy wondered briefly about a Burrow with a horizontal layout, instead of the
vertiginous vertical affair he had lived in all his life. "Perhaps hobbits
cannot fly," he wondered aloud. Witches, with their featherlight charms, their
brooms, the whole apparating business, and their Floo connections, had no real
problem travelling vertically as well as sideways.

So engrossed was he in discovering this strange yet consistent world that he
completely missed night falling and the air chilling (ever so slightly, this
was a magic house after all, and it was quite protective of the children living
within). He awoke from his reading when he was pulled out of it by his Dad,
just before Elrond was about to explain what moon-runes were.

"But daaaad, booook!" he complained intelligibly.

"It must be good, then, but is it as good as your mama's cooking that you'd
stay up here without dinner?" Arthur asked with a twinkle in his eye.

Percy hesitated for just a moment, and his stomach took that half-second to
growl with anticipation.

"Alright, I _guess_." He still looked longingly at the book as he stepped
backwards out of his room and until he could move no more without breaking eye
contact with it, at which point he turned around and promptly collided with his
Dad, who was bracing for Percy in case he'd trip and fall while walking
backwards.

"Ah, an excellent book this must be, that you're that entranced by it. But go
on down ahead now, your Mama's a-waiting and your plate may get cold." No
chance of that, with stasis spells, but it never hurt to add a little more
incentive, Arthur reasoned. He had noticed the minute hesitation and while he
had already been planning to check the book later for a compulsion charm, this
level of infatuation increased his worry. It could be innocent, but better be
safe than sorry, especially in these times.

His standard array of detection spells returned nothing at all, save for a
minor anti-theft ward, though it didn't feel of Weasley make. Setting a
contingent alarm spell, he carefully opened the book... and carefully relaxed
when he read Gideon's name in the inner flap. Out of precaution, he still took
time to check the signature for authenticity and tampering, but smiled when it
returned clear. "The Hobbit," he read. A half-memory tickled at him, of
happiness and laughs and amusement; nothing alarming, at least. His worry
assuaged, he grabbed the Burrow's inner wards, twisted, and stepped out
smoothly into the dining. His children turned every so slightly and smiled just
as he came in. A quirking quick enough that others may have missed it, but he
always caught it: it gave him life, to see his family.

---

Percy finished the book mid way through the afternoon the next day, and thought
the final words were very much different what he'd been taught about
prophecies.

> “Then the prophecies of the old songs have turned out to be true, after a
> fashion!” said Bilbo.
>
> “Of course!” said Gandalf. “And why should not they prove true? Surely you
> don’t disbelieve the prophecies, because you had a hand in bringing them
> about yourself? You don’t really suppose, do you, that all your adventures
> and escapes were managed by mere luck, just for your sole benefit?

The witching guidance around prophecies was that they were most often
self-fulfilled, and hard to interpret before the fact in any case. "Take no
prophecy at face value," Dada had said, "and always bring it to another to
interpret… then bring it to yet another, in case there's more to decipher. But
always keep in mind that prophecy can be twisted and twisting, and will entrap
those who attempt to either follow or prevent."

"Prophecy are one side of a galleon, and luck is the other. Both shine in the
light, and both are desired, yet neither should be trusted, for they are fickle
and care only about their own conceits and deceits." That was the textbook
speaking, and they had spoken nothing of it in class. Prophecies were powerful,
clearly, but witches didn't want anything to do with them.

Gandalf's perspective, as fictional as it was, seemed healthier, somehow.

Gandalf was nothing like any wizard Percy knew or had heard of, and Smaug was
nothing like any dragon Charlie had ever ranted about. Goblins were not
bankers, but vermin... though perhaps some wizards would agree with that
characterisation, but Percy had been drilled into respecting those who held
onto their gold, even if they didn't have a lot of it ("the Malfoys ought to
have more care", Arthur had muttered, though he probably hadn't expected Percy
to hear). And dwarves... dwarves here were only spoken of in legend. Dwarves in
that story were magnificent! Industrious crafters, proficient jewellers, war
masters, hoarders of treasure. But the people that Percy thought mirrored his
own soul most were Hobbits. Creatures of habit, yet flexible when the time
called for it, clever and brave when needed, and cunning too, empathetic to a
fault, though not without faults themselves, but a steadfast friend always,
even through strife and even when the right thing to do by friends was the
hardest of all.

Percy closed the book... then remembered about the prefaces he'd discarded and
never came back to.

> The Hobbit was first published on the occasion of Beltane 1935. It did
> dismally this side of the magic-mundane divide, and was re-edited without the
> spells, rituals, and circles for a Muggle release in September 1937. It
> achieved tremendous success there, reprinting four times before its 1951
> second Muggle edition (fifth impression), which contains a significantly
> revised portion of Chapter V, “Riddles in the Dark,” which brings the story
> of The Hobbit more in line with its sequel, The Lord of the Rings, then in
> progress. Further revisions were made exclusively for the Muggle world. In
> 1966 it reached its sixteenth printing for its third edition. In 1978 we at
> Allen & Unwin & Edmunds fully re-edited the Witching edition as well as the
> Muggle edition together, including all previous amendments and revisions of
> the ritual and circular constructions. To keep the text flowing, these
> constructions are hidden until after the first reading, and may be toggled at
> any point off and on again by a rap of the wand along the spine while open at
> the maps appendix.

Oh yeah... the cover did mention that there were ward and rune schemes inside.
As good an excuse as any for a re-read, really.

In chapter one, along with an illustration of Bilbo's hobbit hole external
door, was a reproduction of the invisible mark Gandalf had set on it. Right
under the title plate for the next chapter was a description of a contract schema
for adventuring parties from two to fourteen, complete with enforcement,
payment, and get-out clauses.

After Elrond's announcement of the cleaver named Orcrist and the warhammer
Glamdring was a ritual for Naming swords and enchanting them.[^11] While he
enjoyed the story again, there was no added content for some number of pages,
save for a footnote that Percy was only half-certain hadn't been there before,
after the sentence: "Now goblins are cruel, wicked, and bad-hearted," reading
as an apology for any goblin or kinned readers, "if you haven't already ordered
a war party to murder me," and an assurance that the storied goblins were
entirely fictional.

Any goodwill that may have been garnered by the apology would surely be
squandered by a construction shown five chapters later, which looked like
something that could be mistaken for a House ring, both physically and
magically, and the words inscribed inside in one of Tolkien's own runic script
spelled out something much more terrible than the most terrible scary story
Percy had ever heard. The ring had been frightening to a young witch on first
reading, but having the actual circle inscribed on a page showing how to apply
it to an actual ring? Eeech.[^12] Percy turned the page quickly, then kept
turning, as a quick annotation about magical tinder boxes was the only other
addition for quite a bit of the adventure. Useful without a wand, perhaps?
Percy couldn't see why any wanded witch would carry around a tinder box,
magical or not, given any of a myriad spells could serve, and faster at that.
Children and the unwanded, though, well. Those weren't often thought of.

--- TK below: check if 7th weasley was born yet, and maybe add something for it

Though he expected something more for chapter seven, due to the arithmantic
potential, it only contained a variant of something called the Animagus potion,
though no explanation was given as to the difference of effects, or even the
original's purpose at all. Later he found a method of apparating using small
hand-drawn circles without noise nor air displacement. Besides it, a note
advised to "talk to elves for more." Elves? As in house elves? But no more was
written. Without any elves, house-bound or otherwise, to talk to, Percy moved
on to a handy spell pattern for hardening and strengthening any kind of
material, with some small variants for water-, dust-, and air- tightness, as
well as a lengthy and thorough discussion of the weakening of spells when
immersed in various common bodies of water — he was most impressed to read
there was a difference in the magic abrasiveness of seawater depending on which
side of the Gibraltar Strait a vessel was ("who would think of checking
this?").

The next few inserts only presented some small creations that looked rushed and
like incomplete filler work: a minor intent-based camping protection ward with
a side effect of acting as a zone-wide deodorant, a limited transfiguration
model for the purpose of swiftly creating and hooking permanent knotted rope
structures from loose or coiled rope, a (theoretical, Percy hoped) dragon
riding harness design, clearly and thankfully designed for real dragons rather
than sentient armoured hoarders like Smaug, and some ritualised doggerel verse
to reliably obtain light without a wand. Percy immediately tried that last one
and, to his great satisfaction, littered his room with floating luminous blobs.

Patience was rewarded by an unfolding double page, which grew to a huge circle
construction plan and pushed his comforter off his bed as it unfolded wider and
larger than Percy's own bed, including hundreds of very tiny runes that looked
familiar though unlike any magical runic script the young witch knew of. The
title-plate announced this complex pattern as a ward to hide an entire city,
though he couldn't see anywhere an indication of what kind of a power input
would be needed for the feat. He spent a long time poring over the intricate
details and multitude of ant-sized notes adorning the parchment.

That was clearly the extent of grandiose offerings. Under a lavish illustration
of Thorin on the battlements, three tiny lines described a spell system to
grant human speech to ravens. Percy wondered if that was similar to what
Salazar Slytherin had infamously done with snakes. Tolkien's system required
feathers of each individual to be given words, and as such probably was
borderline dark. Later, an improvement on the simple Point Me spell, to look
behind protection wards and enchantments using the same kind of space-time high
wizardry that the Floo network was built with.

The ante-penultimate chapter included no protection against falling rocks nor
roving armies of goblins, as Percy had hoped, nor even a spell of invisibility,
but instead a dual Sonorous, letting the caster speak softly to nearby
confidants and loudly to a farther audience without constantly and
conspicuously switching.

A few page turns later, only a set of original formal blessings was written,
interleaved in all the right places with the text, for farewells and adieus.
Percy was somewhat glad of it: this wasn't a merry passage.

That was the end of it for the main text. A pleasant surprise awaited him in
the appendices: a full description of all runes in Tolkien's own scripts,
including arithmantic equations. And that's where he'd seen the script used for
the gigantic array in chapter fourteen! it was entirely composed of Tengwar.
The other two scripts, named Cirth and Black Speech (though that one was left
incomplete as the author found it distasteful, according to a note by the
editor), were present as extra notes here and there throughout, which Percy had
initially taken to be decorations.

The Hobbit was not just an engrossing tale of adventure and friendship, Percy
realised. It was a grimoire, save that it had been shared to the world rather
than kept in a family. Unusual, perhaps, but apparently unused or at least
unknown: asking his dad had yielded no word of a Tolkien House except
recognition of the author of the book he was reading (he had preened slightly
at the attention it displayed), and the editor's preface indicated the first
edition had done very poorly, a circumstance that evidently had repeated itself
for the edition he was currently holding. He felt sad for J. R. R. Tolkien (and
he still did not know the actual names behind the initials), yet he couldn't
help but feel it was in a way fortunate, as it meant fewer people were running
around with this particular kind and practice of magic.

_"Ours"_, he crowned in imitation of Gollum's manner, then dissolved into
giggles and hopped off his bed in search of some kind of late-afternoon snack.
High Tea, hobbits called it. That had a nice ring to it.


[^1]: That wasn't a bad description. In 1979, the Prewett estate had been
  compromised and hastily evacuated. Gideon Prewett had taken care of the
  library, picked up everything he could shrink and stuff in his pockets while
  running, then apparated to the Burrow. In the ensuing reunion, his coat had
  been discarded, appropriated by a shivering Weasley, shrugged off in a
  somewhat cozier library, and finally been shredded when the shrinking charms
  had failed and a small cupboard worth of random items had suddenly popped
  through its seams.

[^2]: Magic was funny like that.

[^3]: They have a habit of doing that, thesauruses.

[^4]: Percy had initially been disappointed it wasn't a book about dinosaurs,
  but then had found the entry and promptly discovered not only a large list of
  other mastodon names, but a moving illustration of all different manners of
  olden beasts.

[^5]: Tolkien also thought so, and revised it considerably for the non-magical
  edition. Marketers, however, sometimes confuse older for authentic.

[^6]: He had not yet visited any other libraries than the Burrow's ones as
  such, not even his school's own. Arthur and Molly had sometimes been in
  libraries while caring for, carrying, or cajoling him, but those occasions
  neither counted nor were remembered anyway.

[^7]: The whole reading proficiently thing was quite new for Percy, even if
  three months felt like he'd been reading for an eternity. Percy had decided
  not to count the previous eternity which included all the learning of letters
  and what sounds they made and the meaning of words and why it was so
  confusing sometimes, although he was sometimes still puzzled with why a word
  wasn't written like it aught to be. Years later, he still wondered, and had
  several drafts for a better orthography to ~~forcefully legislate~~, ahem,
  gently introduce to an unsuspecting populace once he ~~took over~~ obtained
  enough influence.

[^8]: Actually, on the ground next to it. The small table had given up on
  holding the ever-increasing mess, and it had begun surreptitiously unloading
  some of the less-retrieved weight onto the parquet.

[^9]: Not that he particularly tried to, but adults did tend to forget about
  small children who make no noise.

[^10]: Percy had barely noticed that he didn't have a bedside table anymore,
  and had just assumed someone had removed it. The bedside table, however, had
  finally had enough and had removed itself to another bedroom. The little
  twins were adorable. It would later wistfully think back on its book-laden
  peaceful youth while apprehensively sensing yet another cauldron boil over
  and spill dangerously close to its wooden feet.

[^11]: It was fortunate Gringotts had never gotten so interested as to read
  this, as this was a direct empiety on one of their exclusive trades, though
  the exclusivity was not of a legal nature. They tolerated the odd human
  blacksmith and had treaties with centaurs and elves, but distributing
  techniques to a wide public for free? That was several steps too far.

[^12]: On closer inspection, some years later, Percy would realise that few, if
  any at all, wizards would have been able to complete the ritual, and that
  even if they did, some subtle details were missing to achieve the full
  effect. The Tolkien Ward having been dead for some years, those details, if
  they even existed, were likely lost to time, and would need to be
  reverse-engineered.
